 What's hot and what's not for winter trends 2024? You'll be shocked! I've topped up my contacts in the fashion and design industry and here is what they said would be hot and I'll be showing you what to wear instead. Our first look that's how this winter is… Micro and Mini Skirts Let's be honest Frenchic ladies, skirts have been pretty much unwearable for the past few years for us women of age 50. Unless you wanted to wear something as wide as a belt, you had to turn to trousers instead. As this trend is disappearing, you won't have to worry about your bikini line ladies because what's coming instead are midi and maxi pleated skirts. In a solid color, as my grey one, or in a to-die-for. Tartan in a burberry, bourdon or next. I can already hear the backpipes now. For the last few seasons, we have been seeing a return to femininity. So these maxi pleated skirts are so beautiful and feminine. If you are newbie, a big welcome to you. Don't be shy, click subscribe and let us know where you're from. Our next trend out of fashion is utilitarian or work boots. So you may wonder, Marianne, what are these? These are such styles as lug boots, biker boots, platform boots, platform and ugg boots, steel toe cap boots, really all those boots that are not feminine but I think ultra workwear and masculine. Really the opposite of femininity that we have been seeing lately. So what can you wear instead? So here you are, boots are being more refined, feminine and they are say wearable. And I hope that as well as clothes, we are seeing a return to feminine and beautiful footwear because I for one am pretty fed up with a Glicu shoes. Remember, no crocs, no stocks ladies. So instead of the white toes that we have been seeing in those utilitarian boots, we are seeing a return to the almond and pointed toes. Regarding the pointed toes, you don't have to worry my lovely ladies, your feet don't have to reach the end. The style will be more feminine, more refined, more lean, such as western style and riding boots. The colors are varying too. Last year we saw so much black, that's about all there was. But this winter, we are seeing other colors than black. Of course we'll be seeing the brown but we are also seeing white and off-white, the beige, green and burgundy. I can hear some of you saying that Marianne, white and off-white in winter, they're gonna get dirty on there, it's always raining and muddy. Well, it's okay, just wear them on a clear dry day. Chop them. As well as leather, we are seeing also much more suede. But don't forget to waterproof them. Our next trend out of fashion is faded jeans. If you've been following me for a while my lovely ladies, you know that I've never been a fan of bleached and faded jeans. Why is that you may ask? Well, first of all, they have a frumpy aspect. Secondly, they make you look larger than you are. And also because of the bleaching process, requires more chemicals. So not environmentally friendly and also the bleaching process weakens the cotton fiber. So you will have to rebuy some again, therefore not financially, no environmentally friendly. So what can you instead, my lovely ladies, worry not, Marianne Necker is coming to you rescue with indigo jeans. In France, we have been wearing darker washed jeans and those we call Brut that are non-treated and unbleached. And why do we prefer these? Because they are environmentally sound. They keep the fabric strong and also because dark is seaming. Is this being valuable for you? If it is, please share the video. Our next winter trend that is getting out of fashion is puffer coats. Puffer coats seem to have lost some of their popularity this winter. But let's face it, puffer coats are great for winter in freezing conditions, just like a sleeping bag. But the main inconvenience is that they water you in a big way. So what can you wear instead? Well, Marianne to the rescue, long wool coats. So you may be happy to hear that coats long, belted and in wool are back in trend. But what is the good thing, you may ask Marianne? Most of us don't live above the snow line. But most of us live in temperate climate where a wool coat is enough. And don't forget, you can wear layers underneath to make it warmer. Wool coats have many benefits. First of all, they are made of a natural fiber. Instead of those doodoon, which are made of polyamide and polyester. Wool coats are slimming. Elongating creates an eyeglass figure with a belt. Double the air, as opposed to the padded coat that gives you a straight up and down, no figure figure. Go figure, he'll figure. Stylish and elegant, you can also wear skirts and dresses underneath. What's not to like? Our next winter trend that's out of fashion is padded and quilted jackets. Those short padded or quilting jackets have not been appearing in those fashion brands much this winter. Although you can still find them in small specialist brands such as Uniqlo. But what can you wear instead? Well, barn or waxed jackets. I am surprised to see this type of jacket trending because they are quite utilitarian style for other pursuits such as farming, horse riding and fishing. Were you expecting that? The brand Barber is one of the specialist of waxed jackets in the UK for instance. Many of these barn jackets are not waxed but may have a waxed effect. The jackets that are actually waxed are waterproof or water resistant. So choose wisely. Do you have one of those barn jackets or waxed jackets? Let us know in the comments below and where do you wear it? The next winter trend out of fashion and one absolutely bold over is sportswear and athleisure. Yes, yes, yes, hooray and hallelujah. I am for one, I am so happy to see this dreadful trend out the door. Many people call this sportswear athleisure trend, comfy trend. But come on ladies, you know, I know and we all know that there are many more more flattering styles that are as comfortable as these. Style does not have to be uncomfortable. So what can you wear instead? Tailoring baby. Yes, even our daily casual uniform is changing. And they are becoming much more flattering and elegant. So yes, we are seeing even more tailored clothes, tailored dresses that give you an aglombs figure. We see more blazers, more jackets that are belted, more coats that are belted. We are seeing tailored trousers. We are seeing pleated trousers. We are seeing long maxi skirts. So flattering. And to me, I've returned to elegance. Are you as happy as me to see this? Let me know in the comments below. A last fishing trend. Fishing trend. Our next winter trend that is out of fashion is boring bags. So what can you wear instead? Well, ladies, have fun with your handbags. OK, for my lovely Frenchic ladies out there, I'm not advising you to wear bags with multi-pockets and bags with hundred charms. But you can have fun while still looking chic and stylish. So go for bags in mock croc, in suede, in burgundy, in snake print, and those furry ones. Perfect for keeping your credit card warm. It was so much fun showing you the winter trends that are out of fashion. But if you want to know the mistakes that make you look frumpy, watch the video on screen now.