 Hello and welcome to my Keto Low Carb Grocery Hall. I do include prices as well as nutritional information on anything new. And since I shop at multiple stores, I'm going to put timestamps in the description box just in case you need to skip around. But before we get started, I wanted to let you know I'm trying something different today. Not only will I be telling you the price of each item, I'm going to let you know the total and then I'm going to share just how much I saved. And I promise you, that number is going to blow your mind. Okay, now let's head into the kitchen and I'll show you what I picked up. I only grabbed a few things from Walmart. 16 ounces of MarketSide 910 GrassFed GrassFinished Ground Beef with no antibiotics or hormones, $6.86. I bought a loaf of Extraordinary Bites Zero Net Carb Bread and I found this in the freezer section. This package contains 14 slices. One piece is a serving with 30 calories, a half a gram of fat, three grams of protein and 10 total carbs. Once you subtract fiber, it brings it all the way down to the zero net carbs, $5.98. Egg prices are out of control again. So I opted for the cheapest clean version, a dozen of the Eggland's best for $3.42. A one pound bag of great value, finely shredded mozzarella cheese, $4.22. Warning, I'm going to talk about a new item I found and it is not keto friendly. So my three kids are obsessed with Texas Roadhouse and they love those rolls. They're now available in the freezer section but only at Walmart. It's a 14 ounce package with 12 mini rolls and it includes the Honey Cinnamon Glaze you drizzle over top when they're finished baking. The price, $5.26. They also have the Texas Roadhouse Whipped Butters, the original and then the one I picked up which is the Honey Cinnamon. This tub was $3.48. That's everything that I bought at Walmart and my total for the low carb items was $20.48. Next is United Grocery Outlet. It's a discount supermarket with incredible prices. This week they had 10 ounce grass fed New York strip steaks for $5.99. I only got two since I've never had this brand. If you have, let me know if it's any good. Two packs of the Tysons Pork for Fajitas. 20 ounces each, pre-sliced, gluten-free, seasoned pork strips. Four ounces is a serving with 130 calories, 3 grams of fat, 24 grams of protein and two total carbs. $2.99. I bought three packs of the Applegate Farms Organic Beef Hot Dogs. 100% grass fed, pasture raised, no antibiotics, no nitrates, or preservatives plus non-GMO and minimally processed. Each package contains six. One is a serving with 100 calories, 8 grams of fat, 7 grams of protein and zero carbs. $1.69 each. Oscar Meyer Carving Board Rotisserie Seasoned Chicken Breast. 7.5 ounces for $2.49. Now for the deal of the day. 16.9 ounce bottles of Primal Kitchen Avocado Oil. Keto and Paleo Friendly Non-GMO. Only ingredient, avocado oil, and they were $5.99 each. I bought two 10 ounce bags of Great Value Frozen Zucchini Blend. It contains green and yellow zucchini. Yellow zucchini, I don't know about you, but I call that squash. Is there a difference? They were $1 each. 12 ounce bottles of Texas Roadhouse Gold Sauce and Classic Steak Sauce. Check out this nutritional information. Carb count is high considering a serving is only one tablespoon. The reason I picked them up? I'm going to add them to a holiday gift basket. $1 a piece. I grabbed two 40 ounce unsweetened Dunkin' Ice coffees. Only $1.29. One 16 ounce jar of Harvestay Creamy Almond Butter with Sea Salt. Ingredients, dry roasted almonds, and sea salt. Two tablespoons is a serving with 190 calories, 17 grams of fat, 7 grams of protein, 7 total carbs, and 4 net carbs. $4.99. Sargento 1.5 ounce Pepper Jack Cheese Bars. These are individual snacks. One is 160 calories, 13 grams of fat, 9 grams of protein, and less than one carb. $0.55 each. I bought a massive 2 pound 14 ounce container of planters salted cashews. $14.99. Sabra Roasted Red Pepper Hummus. 30 ounces for $3.99. Two tablespoons is 5 total carbs or 3 net carbs. One 89 ounce jug of unsweetened Gold Peak Real Brewed Tea. Zero carbs per serving and the price was $1.99. 30 ounce tub of the best mayo in the world. Dukes. Unfortunately, it does contain soybean oil, but no sugar at least. It was priced at $3.99. My family is pickle obsessed. The fridge is always stocked with a huge variety. And the Klossom brand is one of our favorites. This is a 24 ounce jar of hot and spicy spears. One pickle is less than one carb. No added sugars, clean ingredients, and delicious. It was $1.49. I also bought a 24 ounce jar of Mount Olive Sandwich Stuffers. No sugar, gluten free, vegan, and one slice is less than one carb. $1.49. I like to keep things like this around the house just in case my blood sugar drops. It's a one ounce receivable bag of Good Grace's freeze dried blueberries. The entire package is a serving with 25 total carbs or 20 net carbs. Only ingredient is blueberries. The price $1.99. Chipotle Rotale. Is this a new flavor? Because I've never seen it before. I was intrigued. So I got two of the 10 ounce cans. They were $1 each. 16 ounce container of Mayfield Green Chili Dip. No idea what I'm going to use this for. Maybe to dip pork rinds in, but I'm open to suggestions. So feel free to let me know in the comments. Two tablespoons is 60 calories, five grams of fat, less than one protein, and two total carbs. I picked it up because it was only 50 cents. I don't chew gum because I have TMJ, but my 15 year old does. Not sure why, but the price of chewing gum is insane. So when I saw the peppermint ice breakers for 89 cents, I got four containers. And each one has 40 pieces. I've never tried this flavor energy drink. Neckdrein Blueberry. It's a 16 ounce can with 300 milligrams of caffeine, vegan, gluten free, zero calories, zero fat, zero carbs. And the sweetener used is sucralose. Price $1. Here's another product I've never tried. It's called Amino Lean. Flavor, sparkling, blood orange. This can has 140 milligrams of caffeine. And that's going to come from green tea. Zero calories, zero fat, zero carbs, sweetener used is sucralose. It was 79 cents. Pre-bottic, probiotic, and post-bottic drinks are all the rage right now. Think Oli Pop and Poppy. This one is called Mighty Pop. Organic, gut healthy soda. The flavor is pineapple grapefruit, non-GMO, kosher, gluten free, vegan, plant based, and supports digestive health. 30 calories, zero fat, zero protein, seven total carbs, four net carbs. Sweetener used was stevia. Price 50 cents. I bought four sparkling ice drinks. Each one of those was 17 fluid ounces. Three of the ice tea in lemonade and one raspberry lemonade. Both flavors were five calories and zero carbs. For those of you wondering, these are caffeine free. They were 50 cents each. Okay, that's everything I bought at United Grocery Outlet. And I spent $90.45. If I would have picked those same items up at any other store like Walmart, Target, Windix, ePublics, it would have cost me over $200. Talk about a massive savings, over $120. If you've stuck around this long, make sure you're subscribed because I'd love to have you over here as part of my YouTube family. Also, check to make sure that notification bell has been clicked. That way, every single time I upload, you'll be notified. Check out that description box because there's lots of discount codes down there for those of you that do order any keto or low carb products online. And I'll also have the Facebook group link down there if you'd like to come on over and join. Now let me head in the house. I got to go put these groceries up. Until next time, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you have an amazing day. Bye.