 Welcome to Bad Gear, the show about the world's most hated audio tools. Over the last 30 years, Cork has released many iconic products worthy of a reissue, a prophecy operable without a quantum physics degree, a new chaos pad that actually works and maybe even an electripe that deserves the name. However, for reasons completely beyond my comprehension, we need to talk about King Corganio. This brand new synth is basically identical to a more or less forgotten 2013 Cork instrument by the same name without the matrix reference and is, just like its predecessor, a prime example for how to mess up both product launch timing and pricing strategy. At the first glance it is ticking all the King Corganio boxes, a generous front panel in a color scheme that didn't work so well for Astrolab, approximately 16% wasted on headphones and joysticks, another 16% dedicated to menu diving, leaving around a third of its real estate for actual synth controls with 10% of that precious space taken up by a conveniently tweakable amp knob while the almighty cutoff knob is located in a much more crowded section of the physical UI. Nio comes without the gimmicky tube, CV gate output and 80's car dashboard appearance of its predecessor and although Cork just uli beringert their own 24-wise synth engine, matches are, according to loop-ops pinned comment, not fully compatible because of a different selection of internal PCM samples. Yes, you heard that right in addition to the large number of VA oscillator models with synth built in unison, sync, ring and X-mod. The King comes with DWG as waveforms, Cork keeps putting in their synths since 1984, this is surprisingly ravey treasurecove of old school samples, including the venerable M1 piano. Three of these oscillators are fed through a similarly versatile filter offering its own flavors and historical mimicry. The minimalist modulator section with two envelopes and two LFOs let you dial in bread and butter stuff in seconds but require you to take a deep dive into the menu system if you want more fancy sound design options like an easy to use mod matrix. King Cork is by Timbrel in nature which not only allows for layers and splits but also lets you address two different tones via MIDI. These tabras can be routed to three FX processors independently, one of them dedicated to all kinds of distortion and basic filtering, one for modulation FX and you have to decide whether you want reverb or delay, which is a bit skimpy and 2024 having a master EQ certainly comes in handy in a live situation and the scaled down keypad is devoid of after touch and like on most recent Cork synths, nothing to call home about while setting up the arpeggiator requires you to menu dive hard for a sequencer less non-wavetable plastic synth with only limited connectivity and a 2010's engine, prices of around a thousand intercontinental megabucks might seem a bit steep so thanks to Klangfarbe for lending me one of their floor models. King Cork Neo is probably one of the most underwhelming releases of 2024. Is it Cork's last ditch effort to stay afloat or part of a secret plan that we, the consumers, are unable to understand yet? You have already heard the synth in today's intro too, that's a bit vanilla sounding but it gets the job done. I wanna know if there is some character hidden in between the presets. I can get behind that. Fat digital bass and tasteful rompler Gs are always welcome and the filter models are super tweakable. Implementation of multi-timbrality is a bit too old school for my taste. The keyboard might be a disappointment for real synth players. Time to find out if it's good enough for amateur noodlers like me. That was more fun than expected as I can't handle aftertouch properly anyway the key bat does the trick for me, although I consider the joystick to be an insult. The FX section sounds really nice. While King Cork Neo is certainly useful life I'm not so sure about how well it fares in a studio situation. Let's embrace the plastic sheen of the synth engine in this monster movie montage meme and bass stepper and or roller. Here Neo is a fully functional, decent sounding and practical musical instrument. However as one of the leading brands that shaped the completely oversaturated music tech landscape of today they should have been aware of the fact that a synth like this would be overshadowed by much more affordable, attractive and technically advanced instruments. Cork just in case generating revenue with hardware synths is still part of your business plan I have a few suggestions that won't break your R&D budget. How about a fancy multi-engine SE keyboard that combines Opsix, Wave State and MAD Wave, maybe a full-sized MS-2000 reissue with proper polyphony and as of now you can still beat Uli on that Hero Tribe thing. I would totally love to try your new 13.000 dollar synth though. Thanks for watching and see you next time! Hey guys, I hope you enjoyed the episode, feel free to like, subscribe, become a patron and leave a comment what other kind of gear you would like to see and hear on the show. Thanks to all my patrons for supporting the channel and welcome to the monthly Volcoder shoutout. I think it's time to give that fancy King Korg Neo Volcoder microphone a go. Tier 4. David and Derek Kill synth of A.T.E.C. Blood Wraithers Let me run Candy Shaver Everett Dugnor The Mist The Dreamland Graham The Mist The Hummer The Great Shimp The Corillian The Great Shimp The Hummer The Hummer The Hummer The Great Shimp The Hummer The Hummer Tier 6 The Hummer The Hummer The Hummer The Hummer Again, thank you so much for supporting the channel, see you next month!