 I've been waiting for the return of the Black Toe Air Jordan 1 since they last released back in 2016. And like a lot of the other retro's that have been releasing recently of OG Colorways, Jordan Brand decided to remaster the Black Toe ones. I finally got my pair in the mail today. I'm so excited to check it out. This is by far one of my most anticipated sneakers of the entire year as an Air Jordan 1 fan. And the Black Toe's being one of my favorite colorways of all time. I think I've got a bit of a confession to make. I accidentally bought two pairs. It wasn't totally by accident, but I did buy two pairs. Both for an unbelievably high resale price. So the reason I did it was because I had ordered my size of these shoes two or three weeks ago. I had done it when the price was pretty high. They just were taking a while to come in from Goat. And I was like, why are they taking so long to come in from Goat? And then a size 9.5 popped up on Goat for next day instant ship, so I bought it. So this is the size 9.5 instant ship pair from Goat. And of course, as soon as I ordered it, the next day I get an update on my app saying that my size 9 is going to get delivered the next day, which is today. It hasn't gotten delivered yet, but there's a very good chance that it will get delivered later today. So I spent probably around $1,200 on both pairs of sneakers, and I just don't need two pairs of Black Toes for $1,200. That being said, if you want to grab a pair of Black Toe Air Jordan ones for the now, somewhat reasonable resale price a month before release, check them out through the YouTube shopping tab on your screen. Or if you're watching this video, maybe around release day or after release, you could probably grab them for a lot cheaper, again, through the YouTube shopping tab on your screen. So make sure to check it out. But this is a size 9.5. I think what I'm going to do is actually sell this pair on what not, and then give you guys a special QR code that allows you to verify that it's a pair that was in one of my videos on Core. It's a whole cool system that we're working on. Basically moving forward, what I'm going to do is if you buy a pair for me that was used in a review like this pair, it will have a QR code that you can scan and prove that you got the pair from the review video through your Core badge, which is super sick. So make sure to check out that one out livestream in the description below if you want to grab this exact pair. Now, I won't be trying on the size 9.5 because I'm getting a size 9, like I said today. So I'll just be unboxing the size 9.5 and giving you guys my first impressions. This is my first time seeing this shoe, so I'm really excited about it. But you've definitely already noticed the biggest change between this pair and a standard pair of Air Jordan 1s is, of course, the box. I'm sure you've seen standard Jordan 1 boxes. This is what they usually look like. They come in black with red text on the top. You've also got the Lost and Found box, which has that same black and red, but has an orange top because it was supposed to be misplaced or, I don't know, whatever. There's a whole story behind that. Check out my review if you haven't yet. For this reimagined pair of Air Jordan 1s, you've got a picture of Michael Jordan with the exact pair, at least the style of that pair, around his neck. This is one of the most iconic photos of Michael Jordan ever. And what's really cool is that they've actually styled the pair of shoes inside this box to look exactly like the pair that he's wearing. Not only that, but this is also the pair that he's wearing in the iconic Jumpman photo, the one where he's jumping with the Chicago Skyline in the background that they based the logo off of. So there's a lot of really cool history behind this shoe, and there's even more which we'll get into as we go through the review of this shoe. There's actually so many more details and stories hidden in this sneaker than I ever expected. So when I was doing research for this shoe, I kept like finding out new things about the sneaker, and I was like, wow, this is so crazy. So I've got to say, I liked this shoe before just because it was a Black Tail 1, but now that I know even more about the history behind this shoe, I'm even more into it. But I'm getting distracted. Let's continue on with the box. Like I said, you've got this iconic photo of Michael Jordan on the front, printed in this sort of like newspaper dot print, which is really cool. On the sides, the photo just kind of wraps around the edges of the box. The bottom of the box comes in white for whatever reason, I guess, you know, it's a little bit cheaper. You don't have to have to print on the bottom of the box because no one ever really sees it. And then on one end, you've got the size tag, which comes in this thin sort of bar size tag. This is a size nine and a half, like I mentioned, and the official colorway of this pair is white, black, varsity, red sale. Is there anything else around the outside of the box that I should mention? I don't think so. This is a firebox out though. I'm not gonna lie. I love when Jordan Brand does that. They don't do it a lot. Like sometimes they'll change the color of the box to kind of match the sneakers, but they don't often print a full image on the top of the box to match the sneakers inside, which I think is really cool. They actually did it with the Skyline Air Jordan ones, which are based on the same photo shoot. It's like a skyline of Chicago. But for this one, you got Michael, you got the shoes. That's all you really need. Let's pop the box top and see the sneakers. Here we go. I didn't notice this a second ago, but it looks like the inside of the box top says special attention, Mr. Jordan on it. Inside the box, you've got special paper. I didn't know it came with special paper. You've got what looks like the Chicago Skyline right there and Air Jordan written out, because obviously this shoe doesn't feature the wings logo. Instead has the Air Jordan logo written out. We've got some wings logo sketches right there, which of course were based on flight wings from airlines, which is pretty cool. And then we get to the shoes themselves, which I have not seen until right this second. So here we go. I'm really excited. Fire. Absolutely fire. So here they are. The Blacktoe Air Jordan one reimagines for 2024. These are fire. I'm just such a huge Jordan one fan. They look actually pretty similar to my 2016 pair. I will do a full comparison as we go through the video, but just an initial impression. Let's see. Pretty similar, except this pair doesn't have the sparkles on it. So the new repair already wins in that regard. The first thing that you'll notice inside the box is that the shoe does come with double laces. You've got black laces and red laces. I think I will probably go with the black laces because that's usually how I wear my Air Jordan ones with black laces. I don't often go for the red, and I think that's the case for these guys. I probably will go for the black. This is similar to the Lawson found Jordan ones that had, I think the cream laces and the black laces tied together like this. And then you just pull out whichever lace you don't want. So I guess at this point, why don't I wait for my actual size to come in and then try them on and let you guys know how they fit. All right. So it's time to try these shoes on. And the good news is a size nine actually did show up literally hours after my size nine and a half. So I didn't even have to buy the nine and a half, but that's fine. But either way, we've got the size nine now. So this is my true to size shoe. So I should be able to tell you whether this shoe is true to size or close to true to size or whatever the case may be. I'm expecting it to be true to size like most other Jordan ones, but we'll find out. Obviously they come in lace. So I had to lace these guys up with them laced up. So far, so good. Hey, these feel good. These feel true to size. 100% just like every other pair of Jordan ones. Also, I should mention because you may have already seen it in B roll because I'm planning to actually wear it in B roll after I film this part. I'm rocking the matching black toe socks coming out on release day of these sneakers. So make sure to grab those path. Gary.com. It's going to be a while, but they'll drop on release day. So remember, oh, shoes, socks, grab them. They look great with the shoes. I mean, I literally color matched them as much as I could. So there you go. Yeah. I think true to size is the way to go. I love them. They feel great on feet. They look great on feet. Just another Jordan one added to my collection. All right. So really quick, I got the 2016 black toes and the 2024 black toes and I'm going to do a comparison between the two just to see how they fit, how they look on feet. I mean, they look very, very similar except for the midsole color and obviously the wings logo really similar. Okay. Let me throw the 2016's on feet. Oh, my 2016's do have the sparkles all over the side, which kind of sucks, but it is what it is. Oh, hold up. The tongue is a different color. The tongue on the 2016's is white and the tongue on the 2024's is black. I didn't notice that. So sizing wise. Yeah. 2024's do fit true to size just like the 2016's. They look very similar except for the tongues and obviously the wings logos and the midsole. Yeah. I think if you're grabbing the 2024's go true to size and you should be just fine. Back to the studio. Man, I love this shoe. I realize Jordan Brand isn't getting the love that it normally gets over the last couple of years, but I think 2024 is one of the best years that they've had in terms of sneaker releases for years. Definitely not profit wise for them, but for the sneaker heads like myself, it's been one of the best years in a long time. Actually, this entire year has just been good for sneakers. It's crazy. Regardless, this shoe releases officially on October 18th for a retail price of 180 bucks. And again, if you want to grab this shoe or even the 2016 version of this shoe, make sure to check it out through the YouTube shopping tab on your screen. So some of you watching this video might have already put this together, but October 18th is not a Saturday like most big Jordan releases. Instead, it's a Friday. And that's because October 18th is a significant date for Jordan brand. And it's not just because we're dropping the Mashka Path K. Black Dough sucks. It's because that day is the 40th anniversary of when the NBA banned the Jordan one. Well, all right. Not exactly the Jordan one, just the band Colorway or the bread Colorway. And really, it's not even the Jordan one that they were banning. It's actually the Nike airships. So there's that. But that's the story that Jordan brand is going with. And it's kind of a cool story regardless. But the release date is not the only significant detail about the Air Jordan one Black Toe reimagined. One of the biggest changes on this shoe is of course the Air Jordan text on the side of the sneaker. And I know when leaked images dropped to the shoe, people were losing their minds. They're like, that ruins the sneaker. It doesn't look the same. And sure, it does change up the look of the shoe somewhat dramatically as much as a logo can on the side of the sneaker. But this reimagined detail, this Air Jordan text actually predates the wings logo. This was the design that was only used in possibly a couple games during Michael Jordan's rookie year and in that photo shoot that I already talked about. In fact, there are barely any, if any pairs left of the 1985 Air Jordan ones that feature this Air Jordan text. It was never released to the public. It was kind of a special early P.E. thing. It's one of those sneaker details that people don't like because they're not used to it. But in terms of sneaker collecting, if you have a pair from 1984 and 1985 that features this Air Jordan text, I mean, you've got a grail, literally a grail. I mean, we're talking hundreds of thousands of dollars. Now, realistically, the only people who probably have those pairs are Michael Jordan, the person that he gifted a pair to, which we'll talk about a little bit later, and possibly some people at Nike. But that's it. So sure, I understand that people don't like to look as much as the wings logo. But for this shoe, I'm actually really into this change because the history behind it is so cool. But I'm making a lot of assumptions here. I've seen a lot of hate online, but maybe sneakerheads are actually into it. Let's ask a few people. I hate this, this Air Jordan, like, text there. You need the wings. The colors are nice. I like the OG ones. The reason there's text on the side of that one is because that's what they had in the photo that Michael Jordan's wearing them around his neck. And also the one where he's doing the Jumpman pose in that photo in front of Chicago. This is what the logo was before the wings logo. I still like, I feel like I need the wings logo. Which one of these two shoes do you like better? Old one for sure. Why's that? I like the white tongue better. The midsole isn't too much of a difference. I could tell that this one's sale and this one's white. But I think the white tongue really makes a difference. Do you prefer the wings versus the Jordan text? Oh, dang, I didn't even notice that. Yeah. Yeah. 100%. Would you grab these ones for retail? Um, I always liked the Black Toe ones, but I can't really wear Jordan one highs. So I don't know. It would be 50-50, but the Air Jordan's kind of making me say no. Oh, dang! Yeah. But now let's dig a little bit deeper into the Air Jordan 1 Reimagined Black Toe. Starting off around the tail of the shoe, you've got this very smooth black leather mudguard. This detail, of course, is the reason why they call it the shoe the Black Toe Air Jordan ones because it's got a black hit instead of a red hit like a regular pair of Chicago's. In the center of the toe, you've got this bright white perforated leather that feels fine. It actually feels pretty similar to the 2016 Black Toes. They will feel kind of plasticky. It's not the best. Moving back in the shoe, that black leather detail continues on to the eye-stay of the sneaker and weaving through these eyelets. I've gone with the black laces like I mentioned earlier. The red laces do look good, but these black laces, they just feel more, I don't know. I just like to look better. I hate that I'm going to say this, but I'm a dad now so I can say it. It literally ties the design of the sneaker together better. In my opinion. I'm sorry about that. I apologize. I regret it immediately. Then underneath the laces, you get to the tongue of the sneaker, which is actually different than the 2016 pair. Now, I literally didn't notice this until I tried these shoes on, but the 2016 pair comes with a white tongue and a white tag, and the 2024 pair comes with the OG black tongue with black tag and red Nike AirTex. Looking at these two shoes now, I do think I prefer the black tongue again because I think it keeps the look a little bit more cohesive, but the white also isn't bad because it kind of travels up from the toe of the sneaker and keeps this white line down the center. I don't know. They're both fine. I really, I guess I have no preference. Actually looking down on the top of the sneakers, another small detail that I'm noticing is that the tongue on the 2024 pair seems a little bit less pointy than the tongue on the 2016 pair. I got this pair on the sneakers app back in 2016, so it is a legit pair. I bought this pair from Goat. I have total faith that these are both legit pairs, so don't say like, oh, the shape's not right. It is. The perforations on the 2016 pair do seem to be a little bit closer to the edge of the tongue than on the 2024 pair. I honestly couldn't tell you which is closer to the OG. I can just check. All right, so looking at the OG 1985 breads that I have, it looks like the toe area is more rounded on the original shoe and the perforations actually do go closer to the edge of the toe like the 2016 pair. Obviously, the shape of these two shoes are different. While this is a reimagined pair of Air Jordan ones, it's not a 1985 reimagined or remastered pair of Air Jordan ones. So it's not the same shape as the original. It's kind of your standard Air Jordan one shape, but that's fine. Not mad at it. It's a great looking pair of sneakers nonetheless. But let me put the 2016 pair back down, grab this pair of 2024s so there's no confusion. Moving inside the sneaker, you've got this black fabric sock liner that's pretty soft at the touch. It feels like your standard Air Jordan one sock liners. It is different though than the 2016 pair. Of course, I pick up a pair as soon as I put it down. You've got a much rougher black fabric sock liner. Jordan brand doesn't seem to use anymore on any of their pairs. It seems like it's all this sort of newer, smoother finish, which I don't mind. It doesn't really make a huge difference to me either way. And then moving inside the sneaker, you've got a white insole with this nice foam backing. It's actually a very soft feeling insole. And then you've got the Nike AirTex printed on the heel in black. It's actually a much nicer insole than what you get on the 2016 pair. The 2016 pair comes with that standard like super thin and flimsy insole that really has no foam to it. This one has a pretty thick foam footbed, which I actually really like. It's obviously still not like the most comfortable shoe in the world, but it does get the job done. I also don't mind the way that Jordan ones feel on foot. That's just me personally though. Like we talked about earlier on in the video, the fit of this shoe is true to size. It's your standard Air Jordan one size. Continuing back on the sneaker, you get to this white midfoot panel that's the same sort of plasticy white leather. On top of that midfoot panel, you've got this black Nike swoosh, which actually I think is a tad bit wider than the Nike swoosh on the 2016 pair. Not by much, but a little bit. Then moving farther back on the shoe, you've got your two red leather panels on the top and the bottom part of the shoe. On the lateral side, like I already mentioned, you've got that Air Jordan text, which is actually sort of pressed into the side of the sneaker and then painted in this black matte paint. It's really growing on me. I never hated it. Like I think a lot of people did. I hate this. But I wasn't used to it. Now I'm actually really liking the way that it looks a lot. Do I want every Air Jordan one to have this? Probably not. Knowing the story behind it, it makes it that much better. On the medial side of the left shoe, you've actually got some text printed in matching red, so it's very difficult to see. In fact, when I first unboxed the shoe, I was struggling to find it. I cut that part out, but regardless, I was a little worried that they sent me a pair without it and I was like, yo, there's something wrong with this pair, but turns out it's there. It's just very, very hard to see. And it's also only on the left shoe. At first I thought it was on both shoes, but it turns out it's just the left one. The text is cursive and it reads, My Very Best, with Michael Jordan's signature underneath it. And the reason behind this text is actually really cool. I don't love when they put like fake signatures on Jordan sneakers. I mean, it's cool because it's Michael Jordan's signature and they're very expensive and hard to get, but I don't usually like it because it's not his real signature. It's just like a printing of it. However, it is a big part of the story of this shoe. Like I mentioned earlier, only a few people have pairs of these, probably. But there is one person who at one point had a pair that looked almost exactly like this. And I couldn't actually figure out who that person is through my research other than it being Michael Jordan's friend. And Michael Jordan actually gave him his game-worn pair of Air Jordan ones with the Air Jordan text and signed it in this exact way on the pair that he gave his friend. So there is one pair out there with that exact signature. This Air Jordan text out there from 1984 before the Air Jordan one even released. And if that pair ever goes on sale, it's probably one of the most valuable pairs of sneakers ever made. I think back in 2020, a pair of game-worn signed Air Jordan ones went for around a million dollars. So yes, I totally understand that people don't love that the Wings logo is gone on this shoe. I hate this. But this pair is actually based on one of the rarest pairs of Air Jordan sneakers ever made. And this is also the first time that we've ever gotten this shoe. This is the first time that they've ever released a sneaker with this text on the side, at least this colorway. So for me, it's a story that sold me on this shoe. It's absolutely incredible. I love the lost and found ones because of that story they made up. And I love the packaging that went along with it. But with this shoe, it's almost even better of a story because it's actually based on what really happened. I mean, the box comes with a picture of Michael Jordan wearing this exact pair of shoes around his neck. It's crazy. Like, this pair of shoes never released. And we're getting this super interesting package with it. I love it. But then we continue down on the sneaker. And of course, Jordan Brand couldn't help themselves. They had to age the midsole of the shoe, which I'll be honest, I don't hate. But this is definitely a trend, which I think is going to get old after a while. I'm kind of a pun because, you know, they're aging the midsole. But still, I think age midsole's are probably going to get old after a while. To be honest, though, if it does happen, it's happening slower than I thought it would happen because they've been doing this for years at this point. And then finally, moving to the bottom of the sneaker, you've got this varsity red outsole, which looks incredible all around. This shoe is absolutely amazing. And I think it's one of the best Jordan releases of the entire year. Better than most of their collaborations. This is definitely my favorite Jordan one of the year and possibly my favorite Jordan of the year. We'll have to wait and see that Blacksmith 3 and how that looks. But this is pretty much it for me. I know right now Jordan ones aren't really selling out. We've got the Mocha ones, which are going for right around retail on the resale market right now. We've had the reimagined Royal ones, which are going for well under retail. A lot of really great Jordan ones are selling for way under what they would have sold a couple of years ago. But this is a pair that while I don't think it's going to be like a $500 pair of sneakers, I do think it's going to sell out and I do think it's going to resell a little bit. So if you want a pair of these, make sure to be on your game on October 18th or you can grab them through the YouTube shopping tab on your screen right now, obviously before they release. But if you're watching this video after they release again, it's all right there. But this is a shoe that I'm considering doubling up on. This is a pair I'm going to get for my wife and for my daughter, probably if I can get them for retail. And it's just one of the best releases of the year. And I love it because it's not your standard Air Jordan one. There's a story behind it and the story is actually meaningful. It's not some made up BS like some of the, well, I won't say that. But these stories are like, where are they coming from? But this one, no, this one's good. But let me know your thoughts on the Blacktail reimagined Air Jordan ones in the comment section down below. Make sure to subscribe if you haven't yet and I'll see you all in the next one.