 He was the most amazing thing you've ever seen. He was this blur in the ring that just came in and destroyed anything. He's just a bully. That's all it was. Five. And it worked. He was like the human pit bull. He was against Mike Tyson, who is described as five or other and looks closer to five ten because of the splarishness in his build. He disposed of Hector Mercedes inside a single round. And the question that most of the ringsideers are asking is can he do the same thing again? I'm not from here. I'm from the Dirt Heart Bones thingy together. His life was very, very sad. He was a poor kid, lived in Brownsville, a really rough neighborhood. He stopped going to school around age seven. He was constantly getting evicted. His mother would f**k different kinds of men in order to keep her roof over their heads. While Mike was in the bed like inches from him, his mother had sex with a man. You got into robbing people when you were seven. You really had no supervision. Mike Tyson was sent to the Tri-In Youth Correctional Facility in upstate New York after growing up as a mother and predator on the streets of Brooklyn. At twelve, Tyson was a tough young mother. I got into trouble and I went away to this, um, formatory upstate New York and then I met a Gemini Bobby Stewart that was a boxer. Tyson told Stewart that he wanted to learn how to box. Stewart then brought Tyson to a gym above the police station in Catskill, New York to meet custom order. He was a legendary fight manager and a legendary trainer and a magnificent man. He taught Mike from the age of thirteen to the age of nineteen how to control his emotions. We saw Mike Tyson's professional debut hard to believe in this just about a month ago. In watching the early Mike Tyson fights, he seems to be an unstoppable force, uniquely devastated, uniquely offensively capable. Down goes Singleton again, a left up this time. This boy is tough. Trent Singleton in all sorts of trouble were already in round one. The referee, who mainly has seen enough, Tyson shrugs almost as if disappointed that the fight is over so quickly. Custom model had a tremendous influence on Mike Tyson. I met this white guy, he was strange, a little odd, he started saying things like, why you could be the greatest fighter I will live. Early in the fall, can Tyson finish this? I think so. I think so, that's enough. Custom model trained you. You were fierce. That's it, he ain't no way he's going to hit you then, right? Remember, it's always good to sort of punch where you could hit him, he can't hit you. That's what the science of boxing is all about. He's wearing the white trunks with green trim. He is undefeated in three professional bouts, all victories, all knockouts. Ladies and gentlemen, a big hand for Mike Tyson. You would get into the ring and people were scared of you. Were you channeling the anger that you had from your childhood? I think a lot of it had to do with that, and I realized every fight was a decision, or if I'm going to go back to that lifestyle or not. Like a steam armor, the legs have gone, this is all over. Yes it is, I don't believe it, that's well inside a minute. Tyson was like a sponge, he just absorbed everything that Cuss had to teach him. The head movement, throwing punches with bad intent. Cuss took us to the gym and pointed to a young boy who was hitting the heavy bag very furiously and said that's Mike Tyson, not only is he here, but he will undoubtedly go on to become the youngest heavyweight champion in history. What's the size of him, he looks like an incredible Hulk, he really does. I'm not Michael Jack Johnson. He pointed to that because now he goes to left hook. He looked unstoppable, he looked like a different planet of ability. I'll tell you, Michael Jack Johnson earned his money the hard way tonight. There's not much to say about that knockout except to watch. But he was far more than a big puncher, he's a very good boxer. Still being win, to let everybody know that Donny Long is back. The first push, Youngster's only 19 years of age, long his 27. That's it, wow, the left hand puts him down, he collapses and this one is over as the doctors rush into the ring. Forget what the press release is saying, he's only 5'10", someone had to believe he's 6' he is not a big heavyweight, he's only a kid. He had this body that could really fool you. And to forgetting that he was still a kid who had to develop. Left hook, good night. What a great shot. Okay, look at the stats, 10 fights, 10 wins, 7 inside the first round. I want to do something that no fighter ever done, Jack Dempsey broke people's eye pockets. You know what I mean, that's to me, that's a high, you know what I mean, it's to see like I did this. When he was being trained by Customato, he was living the complete total existence of a man held back on becoming the world champion. The help that Cusgate might was not only in the ring but out of the ring. Being part of Customato's family was therapeutic, he gave him direction, he gave him order, he gave him care, loving. Tyson's teams were spent in the Demato family, Cus eventually adopted him. There's only so much punishment anybody can take, that is the limit of Sterling Benjamin's endurance. You have a stretch, how about my, you know, when I put on your feet, you get it, you're tired. Is the hardest thing ever been hit? It is the hardest, you're tired, it's all my work, I am. But it's getting harder and harder now to find anybody who wants anything to do with them. I mean no fighter wants to get run over by a truck. One of the things that's always fascinated me about you is this ability you have to intimidate opponents. A lot of them seem to have been beaten before they got in the ring almost, or when they caught your eye when they got in the ring. Are you aware of that? First punch he threw, oh my. Mike Tyson, when the bell rings, he conducts himself as if someone stole something from him. He's so short and he had this crazy style of bobbing and weaving and ripping ridiculous power and speed punches. Mike Tyson, without a doubt, one of the bright stars in the heavyweight picture, now goes to 11-0 with 11 knockouts. It was the first punch thrown in the fight. If you look at early Mike Tyson, the way he was running his way through the heavyweight division. But he was far more than a big puncher. He was a very good boxer. He could jab, he could move, as well as punch. So he was virtually the complete article and he had that knockout punch in both hands. And of course when anybody goes to see heavyweight boxing, that's what they want to see. They want to see people get knocked out. And God forbid, if anything happened to Cubs, we're all professionals and we're going to continue. And now Cubs got to be a thing. Then in 1985, Customado died. She was like my father. I never really had a father figure. The late and legendary trainer, Customado, was the only real father figure Mike Tyson ever knew. The death of Customado was clearly a huge issue. Well, when Customado died, I think is when it all starts really going to crap for Tyson. What led him to success was having a very strict mentor slash coach, Customado. Fight number 13 for Mike Tyson. We're back in Latham. It's the same Mike Tyson. It is not the same camp. This is his second fight since the tragic death of Customado on the 4th of November. Oh, he's shaking. He's so shaky and we're only in round one. And this is a good fighter. I can hardly believe what I'm seeing. Guys, the left hook, which is fast becoming a Tyson trademark, sends him down. So now Mike Tyson is 13 and all of his victories coming by. Knockout and no doubt has gone past the fourth round. Every fight is a 30-second assault. Those 80s fights with Tyson where he would just show up and look at people and they would melt. If you blink in the first round, you'll probably miss a Mike Tyson fight. And down goes Mark Young, the crowd chanting the next heavyweight champion, Mike Tyson. You definitely are going to hear more about him. And then I see Mike Tyson with the hardest, up-and-coming fighter. He has an ability to slip punches that has not been seen in the heavyweight ranks since Muhammad Ali. And down. He went out there and f***ed everybody up in the first round. That's the way he ran through the division. He changed the whole thing. A double right hand to the body and the chin. Down goes Lorenzo Boyd. But here, the spotlight falls most directly on 20-year-old Mike Tyson, whose public appeal grows every time he fights. He was a special force. A most scary fighter on earth. You got knocked the f*** out. Laser is down. Joe Cortez moves in to have a look. And he's going to stop the fight. It did not last 20 seconds. He will have a shot. It appears at the heavyweight title. He is the WVC heavyweight champion of the world. When you would enter the ring, already pop and sweat. Black shoes, no socks, black trunks. There is electricity in the crowd. I've got goosebumps on the line. The WVC heavyweight championship of the world. As soon as you stepped in the ring, the other guy across the ring, what were you thinking? I mean, because he was thinking, oh, that's my ass. Any question from the champion or a team such an artist, get it on. Come on. He absolutely destroyed it. He knocked him all over the ring. Pound for pound. Mike Tyson, the greatest fighter of our era. Don't forget it. Tyson already on the stool. His turn for perfect. This is round two. And he's knocked out. He goes down. He should be able to get up from this. His legs maybe shut the a**. As Trevor Burrick falls back into the ring. Mike is a boy prodigy. He's 20 years old. He is quite an incredible force in the heavyweight division, but he's just a boy. In a devastating second round knockout, Mike Tyson, aged 20, became the youngest heavyweight champion in boxing history. His managers, corner men and friends ran to congratulate him. Tyson kissed Jim Jacobs. He's 20 years old after less than two rounds of the heavyweight champion of the world. But in March of 1988, Jacobs died and Tyson lost his second father substitute. Before Jacobs was buried, Don King made his move. And that created the opening, the opportunity for Don King to move in on a very confused 21 year old kid. In the complex of promoter Don King has become a home away from home for heavyweight champion Mike Tyson. In 1988, once Mike got married, Robyn, Givens and Ruth, of course, were very interested in taking over Mike's career. They moved into a brand new jersey mansion. But as soon as she got married, she pulled up and said, she's Mrs. Mike Tyson. I'm taking over. I want to see all the books and all the records. I happen to know Robyn Givens Tyson. And I just want to leave you with this. I've seen a lot of different things. She is one hell of a fine lady. How does a woman who went to Sarah Lawrence and Harvard Medical School wind up falling in love with a guy who's a graduate of the School of Hard Knocks? God, I want to know too. The winner has still the undisputed, undefeated, heavyweight champion of the world, I'm Mike Tyson. The great reaches at the deepest core of people is reaches deep at them and they're fighting for me and stuff and all that crabbing. That made it easy for Don King, the snake man. It was reported to us here in New York that Robyn and Ruth were at the bank already claiming Mike's account. No one can challenge Mike Tyson right now. You could take anybody out there. There was a line in the front yard loose. He was on steps like this with a heavyweight belt. What? How come the line went to get out the car playing my cat? The title brought fame, money and temptation. Four and a half million on automobiles and motorcycles. Once crashed your Rolls Royce and told cops to keep it. Pretty much he was on coke all the time. He would walk around with a brick of coke as his personal stash. Tyson reverted back to what he thought he was at heart, which was this dirty ghetto person that just wanted to have sex and do drugs. Ladies and gentlemen, the undefeated man who brings the drinks, Mike Holtz Beans! This heavy metal sound that you hear is Mike Tyson about to make his way, and I believe. The sound is deafening here in the arena, so I won't try to yell over it. All I can say is the heavyweight champion is about to make his appearance in the ring. Everything that Tyson does is intimidating. There he is. He comes out, he doesn't wear a coat in. He's working up a full sweat. I want to tell you the electricity in this crowd is awesome. And now, ladies and gentlemen, once and for all, let's get ready for Rumble! There he goes! I don't think you can get up from this. Mike speaks his name flat on his back. It's all over! Mike Tyson has won it! Speaks almost no back throw! A dramatic first round back out for Mike Tyson! Unbelievable strength! It came in the first round! How many people could handle that too? I mean, the money, the fame, at that age, you're the champion, the baddest man of life. It's my belief. Mike really turned into the Mike we know today. As his marriage to Robin Gibbons came apart. So did he. In a nationally televised interview, Robin Gibbons told Barbara Walters that Tyson was a manic depressant. He gets out of control. Throwing, screaming. A charge that would later prove groundless. He shakes, he pushes, he swings. But when I look back at it now, I can't believe I sat there and didn't say anything. The soap opera marriage of boxing champ Mike Tyson and actress Robin Gibbons is coming to an end. So she brought a guy home to see her into my mansion in my car that I'm not allowed to be at. You want to know who it is? Brad Pitt. Brad must have been smoking a joint. He must have been drinking something. Because he was real close to me in the car. He had no idea he didn't see me. But then when he got out of the car, he saw me. Aw, shit. Tyson's in Japan to defend his heavyweight boxing title against James Bustard Douglas. But in two hours of the champion's arrival here, Tyson Mania was in full crop. I'll leave it at this. He clearly was very distracted. Coming into the fight, stressed out beyond comprehension. I wonder why that is. He was 37 and 0 at that particular moment in time. He was fierce. He was menacing. Before the fight, rumors had swirled about Tyson's mental and physical state. He'd been knocked down and sparring. He stopped moving his head. He began to accept clinches. He started to jab less. You could see that under Don King, not only did his character and morals decline in the road. His boxing technique began to decline in the road. You begin to file through your memory for the biggest upset in heavyweight championship fight histories. Douglas insists that he's going to shock the world in this fight. If he should upset Mike Tyson, it would make the shocks in Eastern Europe seem like local war politics. When you're flying at the real top level of a sport. If you start missing training, you can start taking drugs, start sleeping around. They had neglected to bring a standard piece of equipment called an end swell. An ice cold steel press used to reduce the swelling around the eyes of a battered fighter. They were trying to put icy water into a latex glove to hold against his eye. Suddenly it became clear they didn't have a cut man. They didn't have any equipment. Mike Tyson had actually won the fight in the eighth round when he dropped Buster Douglas and that count was excessively long. And there's a right hand uppercut and down goes Douglas. And suddenly is that. Can he beat the count? He got a little overconfident. That was a long count. Buster Douglas had a big count it out. He's had a big count it out. Still wobbly. Let's see what Mike can do to finish. And the bell ends to save Buster Douglas at the end of round eight. There was the beginning of the end of Mike Tyson. The Mike Tyson that we knew. It's over. Mike Tyson has been knocked out. So at the peak of your career you were convicted and sent to prison for rape. You write and you talk about in your Broadway show that you did not do it. The name is Desi- And he's done. You saw what Robin Givens got out of him. He's someone that he has so much money he's always throwing it around. I might as well get a piece of it. You know that's how people looked at it. Serving a six year term at the Indiana Youth Center, Tyson was back in the setting in you all too well. Everything his adopted father, Customato, had tried to prevent had come true under the tutelage of Don King. They've destroyed the greatest fighter I've ever seen. The debt is paid. The prison term over. Three years ago tomorrow Mike Tyson entered an Indiana penitentiary. Tyson went straight into training and the fights came back. Yes, Tyson is back and with him comes the attention and excitement that only a superstar can generate. Through all the upheaval, Tyson remained the sports most famous and infamous figure and its biggest box office draw. Now if the former champion is to climb the mountain one more time, that journey must begin tonight in impressive fashion. Inequity, check yourself at all times, expect a tough clean fight. Any questions for McNeely's corner? Any questions for Mr. Tyson's corner? Let's get it on! The convict was still a draw. His very first fight after release won him $25 million. How much money did he spend on drugs? I mean you're an incredibly wealthy man. I don't know. I fit enough. Most of my jokes are free, you know, but yeah, I had fun with drugs. He fought on Coke. He used a fake dick, a fake dick, to pass drug tests. Coke is a hell of a drug. Mike Tyson! Mike Tyson! Mike Tyson! And here he is, the walking powerhouse. Mike Tyson who says his objective simply is to throw punches at all times. A very loose looking Bruce Seldon, a very serious looking. I had unified championship beginning when I beat Bruce Seldon. I fought him and beat him in the one round knockout. And I had two belts on my way after being on the program for 11 months. I really thought I was somebody special. No one's ever done that. Not even Muhammad Ali. And then once again I let everything go away and I believed I was God. I believed I was great. I didn't believe I had to train for nobody. Everybody was afraid of me. Apparently Holyfield kept headbutting him over and over again. The ref didn't do anything about it. And no one warned him, no one took any points for him. What am I to do? This is my career. I can't continue getting butted like that. I got children to raise. And this guy keeps butting me, trying to cut me and getting me stopped on cut. I got to retaliate. So Tyson got really dazed and confused and finally snapped to fit his ear. What happened here? He got bit, I think. I can't understand. I want to get him back. I want to get him back. Look out, he's pushed right here. Above us, Mike Tyson. He got bit in the ear. Oh my goodness, he's got a bloody right ear. Holyfield bit by a dirty Mike Tyson. So we go back in, and all of a sudden, you're bit this ear. Mike Tyson has bit. He got a Holyfield for the second time in the years old. Mike Tyson will fight again, and you'll pay to see him. But this time, you're going to pay twice as much. My style is impetuous. My defense is impregnable. And I'm just ferocious. I want your heart. I want to eat his children. Pray to be to alarm. And Tyson goes down for the third time in his career. There's a lack of a challenge then. There's a lack of a goal. There's no more mountain. So now it's just chaos and cocaine and women, and then eventually the wheels fall off. I was a manly, level-customer model. He broke me down and rebuilt me back up, and I became totally loyal to him. And help that on becoming the world champion. Remember from the side, you can let that punch go at the end. Stewart has stated categorically that he knows he needs to keep throwing punches and try to keep Tyson occupied. If he stops throwing, he'll be dead. This could be quick. I was afraid of a 30-second sound bite. This fight is over. Tyson was exceptional. To use the word animal might be a disrespect, really, but he certainly was in the ring. Nobody feared nothing. Mike permits himself to be pushed around. He is one person in the ring and a completely different person when we go out. Look at you scared now, you whore. Scared like a little white boy. Scared of the real man. Oh, f*** you, do you love me, f*** you. I look at this guy. This is not consensual sex we're talking about. Kevin told us this guy's going to be champion as long as he wants to be champion, and it's obvious he wants to continue being champion. Anyway, champion of the world! What will people remember about Mike Tyson 50 years from now? 50 years? I don't know, I'm the most destructive ferocious fighting machine that God ever created. Yeah, that's what I think.